So we've got data going down
into our components, but
now we need to get some user interaction
causing events to come back up.
Otherwise we don't have a game.
So we'll begin by adding a button
inside the square component.
And we're gonna use the event forwarding
shorthand that we learned earlier.
Let's do on:click, like that.
And we're gonna give the button some
styles so that it fills the square.
We'll give it a position:absolute,
width:100%, height:100%.
You now see the button filling the square.
And because we have that click handler,
we can start listening for
that inside our grid.
We start typing on click.
It already knows that click is one of the
events that this component can broadcast.
So inside there,
we'll start adding some logic.
Now, there are various states that
the game could be in when someone
clicks on one of these buttons.
The first state is the one that we
have now, nothing is selected, or
there could be one card that has so
far been selected.
In other words,
the card has been flipped over and
we're revealing what is on the other side.
And then we're gonna
select the second one.
Or we could be in a state where two
cards have already been selected.
We need to handle each
of those separately.
So the easiest one is,
what if nothing is selected so far?
Well, we need some way of representing
that state inside this component.
So I'm gonna create some more variables,
we'll call them a and b.
a is a string, in fact, no,
we're gonna use an index here, so
it's gonna be a number.
a is a number, and b is a number.
And in fact,
we can initialize these to -1.
That can be our way of representing
the a and b are both currently unselected.
And when we do select one of these, we can
set that to the index within the array.
In order to know the index
inside the array,
we need to add the ,i to our each block.
And it'll begin by saying
that if a is -1 and
b is -1, then nothing is selected.
So in response, we need to assign
the current index to the a value.
Do that like that.
All right, if I hit Save, Pretty is gonna
format all of my messy code for me.
Okay, well, how do we represent
that new state in our app?
Well, we're gonna need to pass
that information back down into
the Square component.
So we'll add a new prop on the Square,
export let selected,
that's gonna be a boolean.
And we can add a class to div
class="square" like this.
In fact, let's call it flipped, because
that's how it's gonna be represented in
the user interface when we get around
to making this look more like a game.
It's giving us an error because flipped is
not a value, so we'll make that like this.
Okay, and then we'll add some styles for
that state, add a flip class.
In fact, let's add it on the button.
Add some more ugly background colors.
Inside our grid now, we're gonna see
that there's a red squiggly under Square
because we are not passing in
a prop that the component expects.
And fix that, selected =
(a === i || b === i).
All right, so for
each iteration of this loop, if a is 0 or
b is 0, then the 0th element of
that array should be selected.
So hopefully, if we've wired this
up correctly and I press one of
these buttons now, right, it's gonna
turn that into a selected state.
But only if we're in that state
where nothing so far was selected.
One other little detail here, you'll
notice that if I click on the emojis,
the button does not get clicked,
that's annoying.
So on the span, we're gonna add
a pointer-events: none, right?
That allows us to click anywhere
inside that button, and
it will have the desired effect.
All right, so
let's carry on with this logic.
So we've handled the first state
where nothing was selected.
Well, what about when a is selected,
but b is unselected?
In this case,
we have we have two possibilities.
The first possibility is
that we selected a pair.
The second possibility is that we
selected something that was not a pair of
the already selected element.
So we'll have another if block in here.
If grid(a) === grid(b), congratulations,
we found a pair, otherwise incorrect.
And we'll put in some logic for
that case in a minute.
Otherwise, if neither of
those conditions are true,
then it means that we've
already selected a and b.
And then we need to flip those
back over and start again.
So b is gonna revert to -1, and a is
gonna become whatever we just selected.
So now if I click this one and
then this one, nothing's happening.
Where did I go wrong?
It's because I forgot to add that.
Okay, so now we have both a and
b selected.
If we select another one,
it will reset the selection and
get rid of the selected state on b.
That's okay, but in any memory game
like this, normally what happens is,
after you've selected a pair,
they get hidden immediately afterwards.
So that you can't stare at them and
make notes.
So we're gonna add a timeout that makes
that happen in the case where we got
it wrong, in the incorrect case.
We'll do setTimeout,
after a second we'll reset a and
b both, to -1.
We have to be when we set timeouts,
because you could find a situation
where the setTimeout callback
runs after the user has continued
selecting other squares.
So we need to be able to
cancel that when necessary.
So up here I'm gonna
create a new variable,
let resetTimeout, and
that's gonna be a number.
And then I'm gonna assign
that to the setTimeout call.
And then basically, every time I click,
I'm just gonna clear that timeout.
So I don't need to worry about
interactions clobbering each other.
So hopefully, if I've done this right,
if I select two cards,
they'll stay selected for a second,
and then they'll become unselected.
If I select another card
within that window,
then it will just reset the timeout and
carry on with a new selection, like so.